

- Using a build policy you can check if the code is compiled successfully

- Cobertura is a code coverage tool for java.   

- PMD is a source code analyzer it finds command programming flaws like unused variables 

- During the coding phase, it is always preferential to use static code analysis tools 

- During the CI phase, it is always preferential to use static code analysis.

- During the deployment phase, uses Penetration testing.

- Slack is the perfect communication tool 

- To bypass branch policy requirements to push changes to the branch modify the branch security to a user. 

- The pull request template is a file containing markdown text that is added to your pull request.

- The Git fetch request is used to download objects from another repository.

- SonarQube integrates with Azure DevOps and allows you to maintain code quality  using an authentication token in Azure DevOps 

- Azure Storage Analytics is used to provide insight into the trace request, usage trends, and issues with your storage account  

- Network Security Groups are used to capture ingress and egress IP traffic that flows via network security groups.

- Funnels: You can use funnels to see whether users are completing multiple stages with in your web application.

- User flows: User flows tools visualize how users navigate between the pages.

- Impact: HOw users are affected by the slowness of the web page.

- Standard load balancer supports TCP and HTTPS.

- For connecting your azure boards with a GitHub repository 1) must be a member of the Project collection admin group and project contributors group.

- Query Azure monitor alerts

- Azure traffic manager is azure’s DNS-based load balancing solution.

- When you are implementing the azure traffic manager as the DNS routing service you can use the weighted round-robin routing method for implementing blue-green deployment.

- The two ways given in the MS documentation for the deployment of ARM template as part of the azure pipeline are 1) add a task that runs azure Powershell and add tasks to copy and deploy tasks 

- To check for vulnerabilities use Azure security center (the standard tier)

 

 

 

 

# Practice 5
-Azure Pipelines integrates with Azure Application Insights to allow continuous monitoring

- Conditional access : Conditional access is a set of policies and configurations that control which devices have access to various services and data sources

- PIM : Privileged Identity Management (PIM) is a service in Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) that enables you to manage, control, and monitor access to important resources in your organization.

- Security Center : Microsoft Azure Security Center is a set of tools for monitoring and managing the security of virtual machines and other cloud computing resources within the Microsoft Azure public cloud.

- PAT: A personal access token contains your security credentials for Azure DevOps. A PAT identifies you, your accessible organizations, and scopes of access. As such, they're as critical as passwords, so you should treat them the same way.

- Rebase in GIT: 

- Blue-Green deployment: Blue-green deployment is a technique that reduces downtime and risk by running two identical production environments called Blue and Green.

- At any time, only one of the environments is live, with the live environment serving all production traffic. For this example, Blue is currently live and Green is idle. As you prepare a new version of your software, deployment and the final stage of testing takes place in an environment that is not live: in this example, Green. Once you have deployed and fully tested the software in Green, you switch the router so all incoming requests now go to Green instead of Blue. Green is now live, and Blue is idle.

- Technical debt : Technical debt is the set of problems in a development effort that make forward progress on customer value inefficient. Technical debt saps productivity by making code hard to understand, fragile, time-consuming to change, difficult to validate, and creates unplanned work that blocks progress.

- Test coverage: Test coverage is defined as a technique that determines whether our test cases are actually covering the application code and how much code is exercised when we run those test cases. 

- A greenfield deployment is the design, installation and configuration of computer infrastructure where none existed before, for example, in a new office. In contrast, a brownfield deployment is an upgrade or addition to existing infrastructure using legacy components.